## What is re-frame?

Re-frame is a ClojureScript state/event management framework. It builds on top of Reagent, which builds on top of React JS.

Re-frame shares many similarities with Redux, which is a very popular State Management Libray.

Similarities

- one place to store application state
- dispatch function
- action type in redux is equivalent to event Id in Re-frame
- both has subscription (although in re-frame it is de-duplicated)

Learn mini re-frame by building it - you will learn about finite state machines, event poops, Interceptors, deduplicated graphs, functional programming, declarative programming, data driven programming, event driven programming, managed events, subscriptions, repl driven development, exploratory programming.... and so much more.


## What is a State

"State is a **value** of an **identity** that changes over **time**". Lets unpack that statement. First lets talk about value. So what is a value? Lets start with an example

Let's look at Liverpool FC, an english football team from Liverpool, UK. It's my favourite team and I really hope to go there one day and watch the match live. It is one of the oldest team in england, it's inception going back all the way back to 1892.

Now along the way the team has had many players and coaches. Some on loan while many on full term. But the thing is players come and go. The team that won champions league in 2005 at Ataturk Stadium - Istanbul is not the same team that plays in 2021/2022. So in this case Liverpool FC is the **identity,** and players and coaches are the **value,** that represents Liverpool FC at a particular point in **time**.


## `app-db`

re-frame's application state is held in one place - think of it like you would an in-memory, central database for the app

re-frame puts all application state into one place, which is called app-db.

In re-frame, app-db is one of these:

- Although it is a Reagent atom (hereafter ratom), I'd encourage you to think of it as an in-memory database.
- It will contain structured data.
- You will need to query that data.
- You will perform CRUD and other transformations on it.
- You'll often want to transact on this database atomically, etc. So "in-memory database" seems a more useful paradigm than a map in an atom.

re-frame creates and manages an app-db for you, so you don't need to declare one yourself

### The Benefits

There are benefits to having data in the one place:

1. Here's the big one: because there is a single source of truth, we write no code to synchronise state between many different stateful components. I cannot stress enough how significant this is. You end up writing less code and an entire class of bugs is eliminated. (This mindset is very different to OO which involves distributing state across objects, and then ensuring that state is synchronised, all the while trying to hide it, which is, when you think about it, quite crazy ... and I did it for years).
2. Because all app state is coalesced into one atom, it can be updated with a single `reset!`, which acts like a transactional commit. There is an instant in which the app goes from one state to the next, never a series of incremental steps which can leave the app in a temporarily inconsistent, intermediate state. Again, this simplicity causes a certain class of bugs or design problems to evaporate.
3. The data in `app-db` can be given a strong schema so that, at any moment, we can validate all the data in the application. **All of it!** We do this check after every single "event handler" runs (event handlers compute new state). And this enables us to catch errors early (and accurately). It increases confidence in the way that Types can increase confidence, only [a good schema can potentially provide more **leverage** than types](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nqY4nUMfus8).
4. Undo/Redo [becomes straight forward to implement](https://github.com/day8/re-frame-undo). It is easy to snapshot and restore one central value. Immutable data structures have a feature called `structural sharing` which means it doesn't cost much RAM to keep the last, say, 200 snapshots. All very efficient. For certain categories of applications (eg: drawing applications), this feature is borderline magic. Instead of undo/redo being hard, disruptive and error-prone, it becomes trivial. **But,** many web applications are not self-contained data-wise and, instead, are dominated by data sourced from an authoritative, remote database. For these applications, re-frame's `app-db` is mostly a local caching point, and being able to undo/redo its state is meaningless because the authoritative source of data is elsewhere.
5. The ability to genuinely model control via FSMs (discussed later).
6. The ability to do time travel debugging, even in a production setting.
